feat(tutorials): add first draft for serverless scraping tutorial (#2506)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/create-serverless-scraping/index.mdx

content:
  h1: Create a serverless scraping architecture, with Scaleway Messaging and Queuing SQS, Serverless Functions and Managed Database.
  paragraph: This page illustrates an example of serverless architecture for asynchronous data processing based on Functions, Triggers and Message Queueing
categories:
  - serverless
  - functions
  - messaging
  - managed-database
  - postgresql-and-mysql
tags: serverless serverless-functions functions serverless-triggers triggers sqs-queue managed-database
dates:
  validation: 2023-12-21
  posted: 2023-12-07
---

## Introduction

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />
 
<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [set up authentication for the terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs#authentication)
</Message>

In this tutorial we are going to show how to set up a simple scraping application for Hacker News, exploiting serverless products to process the informations asynchronously. We will deploy two functions:

>  - A producer function, activated by a recurrent cron trigger, that scrapes HackerNews for articles published in the last 15m and pushes the title and url of such articles to an SQS queue provisioned with Scaleway Messaging and Queueing.

Author: opt for: created

      tags_count = scrape_page_for_stats(body['url'])
    ```
    Lastly, we write to the db the informations. *Note: to keep the whole process completely automatic the* `CREATE_TABLE_IF_NOT_EXISTS` *query is run each time. If you integrate the functions to an existing database there is no need for it*
    ```python
      conn = None
      try: 
          conn = pg8000.native.Connection(host=db_host, database=db_name, port=db_port, user=db_user, password=db_password, timeout=15)

          conn.run(CREATE_TABLE_IF_NOT_EXISTS)
          conn.run(INSERT_INTO_ARTICLES, title=body['title'], url=body['url'], a_count=tags_count['a'], h1_count=tags_count['h1'], p_count=tags_count['p'])
      finally:
          if conn is not None:
              conn.close()
    ```
5. As explained on the [Scaleway functions documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/functions/how-to/package-function-dependencies-in-zip/#how-to-configure-your-package-using-python), install the dependencies in a folder `package` and create the archive to be uploaded
    ```bash
    cd consumer
    pip install -r requirements.txt --target ./package
    zip -r functions.zip handlers/ package/
    ```

> ## Create a terraform file to provision the necessary SCW resources

Reviewer: Actually nop!

We show how to provision all the required Scaleway resources via Terraform (but you could equally use the console, API or one of our other supported devtools). The code for the functions is written in `python`.

This project exemplifies a decoupled architecture, where producer and consumer perform specific tasks independently. This kind of design is modular and allows for flexibility and scalability. It also adheres to the principles of microservices and serverless architectures, where individual functions or scripts focus on specific tasks.

You can find all of the code on [github](https://github.com/scaleway/serverless-scraping-tutorial), so feel free to dive right into it! Or follow along with the step by step explaination.

## Create the scraper / data producer
Let's start with the scraper program (the "producer")
1. Create a directory called `scraper`
2. Inside of it, add a file `requirements.txt`. We need the packages `requests`, `bs4` and `boto3==1.27`
  <Message type="important">
  At the moment the scaleway MnQ product does not support AWS SQS json protocol, hence the need to pin the `boto3` version to a previous one.  
  </Message>

> 3. Create a subdirectory `handlers`, and add a `scrape_hn.py` file inside of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a subdirectory `handlers` within the `scraper` directory, and add a `scrape_hn.py` file inside it.
```

Is the scrape_hn.py file created or added from somewhere?

> 3. Create a subdirectory `handlers`, and add a `scrape_hn.py` file inside of it.

Author: Created, but the full code is only available in the repo

    ```bash
    cd scraper
    pip install -r requirements.txt --target ./package
    zip -r functions.zip handlers/ package/
    ```

## Create the consumer
Next, let's create our consumer function. When receiving a message containing the article's title and url from the queue, it will scrape the page for some stats (number of `a`, `h1` and `p` tags) and save these values in a Scaleway managed PostgreSql instance. We are going to create the resources via terraform the following step, if you opt for another method don't forget to set the relevant function environment variables.
1. Create a directory called `consumer`
2. Inside of it, add a file `requirements.txt`. We need the packages `requests`, `bs4` and `pg8000`. We use `pg8000` as it does not depend on system packages, thus making it a good fit for a serverless function. 
3. Create a subdirectory `handlers`, and add a `consumer.py` file inside of it.
4. Add the function code from the repository. Here you can find an explaination of the main code blocks

>     SQS credentials and queue url are accessed by the function as environment variables. We set those variables directly in terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). If you choose another deployment method (e.g: console) don't forget to set them!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    SQS credentials and queue URL are accessed by the function as environment variables. These variables are set by Terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). If you choose another deployment method (e.g: console) don't forget to set them.
```

          conn.run(CREATE_TABLE_IF_NOT_EXISTS)
          conn.run(INSERT_INTO_ARTICLES, title=body['title'], url=body['url'], a_count=tags_count['a'], h1_count=tags_count['h1'], p_count=tags_count['p'])
      finally:
          if conn is not None:
              conn.close()
    ```
5. As explained on the [Scaleway functions documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/functions/how-to/package-function-dependencies-in-zip/#how-to-configure-your-package-using-python), install the dependencies in a folder `package` and create the archive to be uploaded
    ```bash
    cd consumer
    pip install -r requirements.txt --target ./package
    zip -r functions.zip handlers/ package/
    ```

## Create a terraform file to provision the necessary SCW resources

For the purposes of this tutorial we show how to provision all resources via Terraform. You could equally do this via the console, API or other devtools (link to relevant tutorials)
You just need to set up env variables for functions! 

1. Create a directory called terraform
2. Create a file called main.tf

> 3. Set up the scaleway terraform provider (as described in the docs) and project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. In the file you just created, add code to set up the [Scaleway Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs) and project:
```

    ```

>     resource "scaleway_account_project" "mnq_tutorial" {

Reviewer 3: For clarity, can we also add lines 1-12 here?

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    scaleway = {
      source = "scaleway/scaleway"
    }
  }
  required_version = ">= 0.13"
}

provider "scaleway" {
}
```

      name = "mnq-tutorial"
    }
    ```

> 4. Provision the SQS resources: sqs activation for the project, separate credentials with appropriate permissions for producer and consumer, and a sqs queue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Still in the same file, add code to provision the SQS resources: SQS activation for the project, separate credentials with appropriate permissions for producer and consumer, and an SQS queue:
```

    ```
    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs" "main" {
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
    }

    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials" "producer_creds" {
      project_id = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.project_id
      name = "sqs-credentials-producer"

      permissions {
        can_manage  = true
        can_receive = false
        can_publish = true
      }
    }

    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials" "consumer_creds" {
      project_id = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.project_id
      name = "sqs-credentials-consumer"

      permissions {
        can_manage  = false
        can_receive = true
        can_publish = false
      }
    }

    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs_queue" "main" {
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
      name       = "hn-queue"
      endpoint   = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.endpoint
      access_key = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.access_key
      secret_key = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.secret_key
    }
    ```

> 5. Provision the RDB resources. Note that here we are creating a random password and using it for the default and worker user. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Add code to provision the Managed Database for PostgreSQL resources. Note that here we are creating a random password and using it for the default and worker user:
```

      min_lower        = 1
      min_special      = 1
      override_special = "_-"
    }

    output db_password {
      value = random_password.dev_mnq_pg_exporter_password.result
      sensitive = true
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_instance" "main" {
      name = "test-rdb"
      project_id   = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
      node_type = "db-dev-s"
      engine = "PostgreSQL-15"
      is_ha_cluster = false
      disable_backup = true 
      user_name = "mnq_initial_user"
      password = random_password.dev_mnq_pg_exporter_password.result
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_database" "hn-database" {
      instance_id = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.id 
      name = "hn-database"
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_user" "worker" {
      instance_id = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.id
      name = "worker"
      password = random_password.dev_mnq_pg_exporter_password.result
      is_admin = false
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_privilege" "mnq_user_role" {
      instance_id = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.id 
      user_name = scaleway_rdb_user.worker.name
      database_name = scaleway_rdb_database.hn-database.name
      permission = "all"
    }
    ```

> 6. Provision the functions resources. First activate the namespace, then create the functions. Note how we are referencing variables from other resources, to completely automate the deployment process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. Add code to provision the functions resources. First activate the namespace, then create the functions. Note that we are referencing variables from other resources, to completely automate the deployment process:
```

        QUEUE_URL = scaleway_mnq_sqs_queue.main.url
        SQS_ACCESS_KEY = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.access_key
      }
      secret_environment_variables = {
        SQS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.secret_key
      }
    }

    resource "scaleway_function" "consumer" {
      namespace_id = scaleway_function_namespace.mnq_tutorial_namespace.id
      project_id   = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
      name         = "mnq-hn-consumer"
      runtime      = "python311"
      handler      = "handlers/consumer.handle"
      privacy      = "private"
      timeout      = 10
      zip_file     = "../worker/functions.zip"
      zip_hash     = filesha256("../worker/functions.zip")
      deploy       = true
      max_scale    = 3
      environment_variables = {
        DB_NAME = scaleway_rdb_database.hn-database.name
        DB_HOST = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.load_balancer[0].ip
        DB_PORT = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.load_balancer[0].port
        DB_USER = scaleway_rdb_user.worker.name
      }
      secret_environment_variables = {
        DB_PASSWORD = scaleway_rdb_user.worker.password
      }
    }
    ```

> 7. Provision the triggers resources. The cron trigger activates at the minutes `[0, 15, 30, 45]` of every hour. No argument is passed, but we could do so by specifying them in json format in the `args` parameter. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. Add code to provision the triggers resources. The cron trigger activates at the minutes `[0, 15, 30, 45]` of every hour. No arguments are passed, but we could do so by specifying them in JSON format in the `args` parameter. 
```

    ```
    resource "scaleway_function_cron" "scraper_cron" {
      function_id = scaleway_function.scraper.id 
      schedule = "0,15,30,45 * * * *"
      args = jsonencode({})
    }

    resource "scaleway_function_trigger" "consumer_sqs_trigger" {
      function_id = scaleway_function.consumer.id 
      name = "hn-sqs-trigger"
      sqs {
        project_id = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.project_id
        queue = scaleway_mnq_sqs_queue.main.name
      }
    }
    ```

## Put it all in motion

> Using terraform, it is really straightforward: just run

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Terraform makes this very straightforward. To provision all the resources and get everything up and running, run the following commands:
```

```
cd terraform
terraform init
terraform plan 
terraform apply
```

> How to know if it is working as intended? 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### How to check that everything is working correctly
```

> First, you can go in the scaleway console, [activate cockpit](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/observability/cockpit/quickstart/), and check logs and metrics about the functions execution or queue stats. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, go to the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/), [activate Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/quickstart/), and check the logs and metrics for Serverless Functions' execution and Messaging and Queuing SQS queue statistics.
```

> And to check if the data is correctly stored in the database, you can try to connect directly to it via a cli tool like psql. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To check whether the data is correctly stored in the database, you can try [connecting to it directly](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/connect-database-instance/) via a CLI tool such as `psql`. 
```

> You can retrieve your instance ip and port from the console, under the managed db section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Retrieve the instance IP and port of your Managed Database from the console, under the [Managed Database section](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances).
```

> When prompted for password, you can find it by running `terraform output -json`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following command to connect to your database. When prompted for password, you can find it by running `terraform output -json`.
```

```
psql -h <DB_INSTANCE_IP> --port <DB_INSTANCE_PORT> -d hn-database -U worker
```

> And when you are done testing, don't forget to clean up! First deactivate the cockpit from the console, if you had activated it. Then run: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you are done testing, don't forget to clean up! First deactivate the cockpit from the console, if you had activated it. Then run: 
```

```
cd terraform
terraform destroy
```

## Summary, going further, key takeaways
We have showed how to asynchronously decouple producer and consumer using SQS, adhering to serverless patterns. 

> While the volume of data processed in this example is not really notewhorty, thanks to queue's robustness and functions 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the volume of data processed in this example is not really noteworthy, thanks to the Messaging and Queueing SQS queue's robustness and the auto-scaling capabilities of the Serverless Functions, you can adapt this example to manage larger workloads.
```

> auto scaling capabilities, it is possible to manage larger workloads. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Here are some possible extensions to this basic example:

>  - Replace the simple proposed logic with your own. What about counting how many times some keywords (e.g: copilot, serverless, microservice) appears in HN articles? 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Replace the simple proposed logic with your own. What about counting how many times some keywords (e.g: copilot, serverless, microservice) appear in Hacker News articles? 
```

>  - Define multiple cron triggers for different websites and pass the website as argument to the function. Or create multiple functions that feed the same queue. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Define multiple cron triggers for different websites and pass the website as an argument to the function. Or, create multiple functions that feed the same queue. 
```

>  - Use a serverless container instead of the consumer function, and use a command line util like `htmldoc` or `pandoc` to perform a pdf conversion of the article and upload the result to an S3 bucket. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Use a serverless container instead of the consumer function, and use a command line tool such as `htmldoc` or `pandoc` to convert the article to PDF and upload the result to a [Scaleway Object Storage](/storage/object/quickstart/) S3 bucket. 
```

>  - Replace the managed rdb with a Scaleway serverless db, so that all the infrastructure lives in the serverless ecosystem! *Note that at the moment there is no terraform support for serverless db, hence the choice to use rdb*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Replace the Managed Database for PostgreSQL with a [Scaleway Serverless Database](/serverless/sql-databases/quickstart/), so that all the infrastructure lives in the serverless ecosystem! *Note that at the moment there is no Terraform support for Serverless Database, hence the choice here to use Managed Database for PostgreSQL*.
```

dates:
  validation: 2023-12-08
  posted: 2023-12-08
---

## Introduction

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />
 
<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [set up authentication for the Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs#authentication)
</Message>

In this tutorial we show how to set up a simple application which reads [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com) and processes the articles it finds there asynchronously. To do so, we  use Scaleway serverless products and deploy two functions:
 - A producer function, activated by a recurrent cron trigger, that scrapes HackerNews for articles published in the last 15 minutes and pushes the title and URL of the articles to an SQS queue created with Scaleway Messaging and Queuing.
 - A consumer function, triggered by each new message on the SQS queue, that consumes messages published to the queue, scrapes some data from the linked article, and then writes the data into a Scaleway Managed Database.

<Lightbox src="scaleway-scraping-architecture.webp" alt="" />

> We show how to provision all the required Scaleway resources via Terraform, but you could equally use the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/), [API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/) or one of our other supported [devtools](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/). The code for the functions is written in Python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We show how to provision all the required Scaleway resources via Terraform, but you could equally use the [Console](https://console.scaleway.com/), the [API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/) or one of our other supported [devtools](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/). The code for the functions is written in Python.
```

This project exemplifies a decoupled architecture, where producer and consumer perform specific tasks independently. This kind of design is modular and allows for flexibility and scalability. It also adheres to the principles of microservices and serverless architectures, where individual functions or scripts focus on specific tasks.

> You can find all of the code on [github](https://github.com/scaleway/serverless-scraping-tutorial), so feel free to dive right in, or else follow along with the step-by-step explanation below to create the architecture yourself. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find all of the code on [GitHub](https://github.com/scaleway/serverless-scraping-tutorial), so feel free to dive right in, or else follow along with the step-by-step explanation below to create the architecture yourself. 
```

## Create the scraper

We start by creating the scraper program, or the "data producer".

> 1. Create a directory called `scraper`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a directory called `scraper`.
```

> 2. Inside it, create a file `requirements.txt`. We need the packages `requests`, `bs4` and `boto3==1.27`, as shown:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Inside it, create a file `requirements.txt`. We need the packages `requests`, `bs4` and `boto3==1.27`, as follows:
```

    ```
    boto3==1.27
    bs4
    requests
    ```

> 3. Create a subdirectory `handlers` (still inside the `scraper` directory), and add a `scrape_hn.py` file inside it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a subdirectory `handlers` within the `scraper` directory, and add a `scrape_hn.py` file inside it.
```

4. Complete the `scrape_hn.py` file by adding the function code [as shown in the repository](https://github.com/scaleway/serverless-scraping-tutorial/blob/main/scraper/handlers/scrape_hn.py). The main code blocks are briefly explained as follows:

>     SQS credentials and queue URL are read by the function from environment variables. Those variables are set by Terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). *If you choose another deployment method (such as the [Console](https://console.scaleway.com/)) do not forget to set them.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SQS credentials and queue URL are read by the function from environment variables. Those variables are set by Terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). *If you choose another deployment method (such as the [Console](https://console.scaleway.com/)), do not forget to set them.*
```

    ```python
    queue_url = os.getenv('QUEUE_URL') 
    sqs_access_key = os.getenv('SQS_ACCESS_KEY')
    sqs_secret_access_key = os.getenv('SQS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY')
    ```

>     Use the `requests` package to retrieve the HTML, and `BeautifulSoup` to parse it and extract the `span` we are interested in: `titleline` containing **title** and **url**, and `age` holding the publication time 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Use the `requests` package to retrieve the HTML, and `BeautifulSoup` to parse it and extract the `span` we are interested in: `titleline` containing **title** and **url**, and `age` holding the publication time.
```

    ```python
    def scrape_and_push():
        page = requests.get(HN_URL)
        html_doc = page.content

        soup = BeautifulSoup(html_doc, 'html.parser')

        titlelines = soup.find_all(class_="titleline")
        ages = soup.find_all(class_="age")
    ```

>     Using the AWS python sdk `boto3`, connect to the SQS queue and push `title` and `url` of articles published less than 15 minutes ago.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Using the AWS python sdk `boto3`, connect to the SQS queue and push the `title` and `url` of articles published less than 15 minutes ago.
```

    ```python
        sqs = boto3.client(
          'sqs', 
          endpoint_url=SCW_SQS_URL, 
          aws_access_key_id=sqs_access_key, 
          aws_secret_access_key=sqs_secret_access_key, 
          region_name='fr-par')

        for age, titleline in zip(ages, titlelines):
            time_str = age["title"]
            time = datetime.strptime(time_str, "%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S")
            if datetime.utcnow() - time > timedelta(minutes=15):
                continue

            body = json.dumps({'url': titleline.a["href"], 'title': titleline.a.get_text()})
            response = sqs.send_message(QueueUrl=queue_url, MessageBody=body)
    ```

> 5. As explained in the [Scaleway Functions documentation,](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/functions/how-to/package-function-dependencies-in-zip/#how-to-configure-your-package-using-python), install the dependencies in a folder `package` and create the archive to be uploaded:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. As explained in the [Scaleway Functions documentation,](/serverless/functions/how-to/package-function-dependencies-in-zip/#how-to-configure-your-package-using-python), install the dependencies in a folder `package` and create the archive to be uploaded:
```

> 5. As explained in the [Scaleway Functions documentation,](/serverless/functions/how-to/package-function-dependencies-in-zip/#how-to-configure-your-package-using-python), install the dependencies in a folder `package` and create the archive to be uploaded:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. As explained in the [Scaleway Functions documentation,](/serverless/functions/how-to/package-function-dependencies-in-zip/#how-to-configure-your-package-using-python), install the dependencies in a `package` folder and create the archive to be uploaded:
```

    ```bash
    cd scraper
    pip install -r requirements.txt --target ./package
    zip -r functions.zip handlers/ package/
    ```

## Create the consumer

> Next, let's create our consumer function. When receiving a message containing the article's title and URL from the queue, it will scrape the page for some stats (number of `a`, `h1` and `p` tags) and save these values in a Scaleway Managed PostgreSQL Database instance. We show how to create the database instance (and other underlying resources) via Terraform in the following step. If you opt for another method to create the underlying resources, e.g. the console or API, don't forget to set the relevant function environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, let's create our consumer function. When receiving a message containing the article's title and URL from the queue, it will scrape the page for some stats (number of `a`, `h1` and `p` tags) and save these values in a Scaleway Managed PostgreSQL Database instance. We show how to create the database instance (and other underlying resources) via Terraform in the following steps. If you opt for another method to create the underlying resources, e.g. the console or API, do not forget to set the relevant function environment variables.
```

> 1. Create a directory called `consumer` (at the same level as the `scraper` directory created in the previous step).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a directory called `consumer` (at the same level as the `scraper` directory previously created).
```

2. Inside it, create a file `requirements.txt`. We need the packages `requests`, `bs4` and `pg8000`, as shown. We use `pg8000` as it does not depend on system packages, thus making it a good fit for a serverless function:
    ```
    pg8000
    requests
    bs4
    ```

> 3. Create a subdirectory `handlers` (still inside the `consumer` directory), and add a `consumer.py` file inside it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a subdirectory `handlers`within the `consumer` directory, and add a `consumer.py` file inside it.
```

4. Complete the `scrape_hn.py` file by adding the function code [as shown in the repository](https://github.com/scaleway/serverless-scraping-tutorial/blob/main/consumer/handlers/consumer.py). The main code blocks are briefly explained as follows:

>     SQS credentials and queue URL are accessed by the function as environment variables. These variables are set by Terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). If you choose another deployment method (e.g: console) don't forget to set them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SQS credentials and queue URL are accessed by the function as environment variables. These variables are set by Terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). If you choose another deployment method (such as the [Console](https://console.scaleway.com/)), do not forget to set them.
```

>     SQS credentials and queue URL are accessed by the function as environment variables. These variables are set by Terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). If you choose another deployment method (such as the [Console](https://console.scaleway.com/)), do not forget to set them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    SQS credentials and queue URL are accessed by the function as environment variables. These variables are set by Terraform as explained in [one of the next sections](#create-a-terraform-file-to-provision-the-necessary-scw-resources). If you choose another deployment method (such as the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/)), do not forget to set them.
```

    ```python
    db_host = os.getenv('DB_HOST')
    db_port = os.getenv('DB_PORT')
    db_name = os.getenv('DB_NAME')
    db_user = os.getenv('DB_USER')
    db_password = os.getenv('DB_PASSWORD')
    ```

>     From the trigger event we can read the *body* of the SQS message, and use the passed URL to scrape the page for stats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    From the trigger event we can read the *body* of the SQS message, and use the passed URL to scrape the page for stats.
```

    ```python
    def scrape_and_save_to_db(event):
      body = json.loads(event["body"])

      tags_count = scrape_page_for_stats(body['url'])
    ```

>     Lastly, we write the information to the database. *To keep the whole process completely automatic the* `CREATE_TABLE_IF_NOT_EXISTS` *query is run each time. If you integrate the functions to an existing database there is no need for it.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Lastly, we write the information to the database. *To keep the whole process completely automatic the* `CREATE_TABLE_IF_NOT_EXISTS` *query is run each time. If you integrate the functions to an existing database, there is no need for it.*
```

    ```python
      conn = None
      try: 
          conn = pg8000.native.Connection(host=db_host, database=db_name, port=db_port, user=db_user, password=db_password, timeout=15)

          conn.run(CREATE_TABLE_IF_NOT_EXISTS)
          conn.run(INSERT_INTO_ARTICLES, title=body['title'], url=body['url'], a_count=tags_count['a'], h1_count=tags_count['h1'], p_count=tags_count['p'])
      finally:
          if conn is not None:
              conn.close()
    ```
5. As explained in the [Scaleway Functions documentation](/serverless/functions/how-to/package-function-dependencies-in-zip/#how-to-configure-your-package-using-python), install the dependencies in a folder `package` and create the archive to be uploaded:
    ```bash
    cd consumer
    pip install -r requirements.txt --target ./package
    zip -r functions.zip handlers/ package/
    ```

## Create a Terraform file to provision the necessary Scaleway resources

For the purposes of this tutorial we show how to provision all resources via Terraform. 

<Message type="tip">

> If you do not want to use Terraform, you could equally create the required resources via the console, API or other devtools. Remember that if you do so, you will need to set up environment variables for functions as previously specified. The following documentation may be helpful for creating the required resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not want to use Terraform, you can also create the required resources via the [Console](https://console.scaleway.com/), the [Scaleway API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/) or any other [developer tool](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/). Remember that if you do so, you will need to set up environment variables for functions as previously specified. The following documentation may be helpful for creating the required resources:
```

> If you do not want to use Terraform, you can also create the required resources via the [Console](https://console.scaleway.com/), the [Scaleway API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/), or any other [developer tool](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/). Remember that if you do so, you will need to set up environment variables for functions as previously specified. The following documentation may be helpful for creating the required resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not want to use Terraform, you can also create the required resources via the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/), the [Scaleway API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/), or any other [developer tool](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/). Remember that if you do so, you will need to set up environment variables for functions as previously specified. The following documentation may be helpful for creating the required resources:
```

- **Messaging and Queuing SQS resources**: [console documentation](/serverless/messaging/quickstart/) | [API documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/messaging-and-queuing/sqs-api/)
- **Managed Database for PostgreSQL**: [console documentation](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/quickstart/) | [API documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/managed-database-postgre-mysql/)
- **Serverless Functions**: [console documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/functions/quickstart/) | [API documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/serverless-functions/)

> - - **Serverless Functions triggers**: [console documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/functions/how-to/add-trigger-to-a-function/) | [API documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/serverless-functions/#path-triggers-list-all-triggers)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Serverless Functions triggers**: [console documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/functions/how-to/add-trigger-to-a-function/) | [API documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/serverless-functions/#path-triggers-list-all-triggers)
```

</Message>

> 1. Create a directory called terraform (at the same level as the `scraper` and `consumer` directories created in the previous steps).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a directory called `terraform` (at the same level as the `scraper` and `consumer` directories created in the previous steps).
```

2. Inside it, create a file called `main.tf`.

> 3. In the file you just created, add code to set up the [Scaleway Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs) and project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In the file you just created, add the code below to set up the [Scaleway Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs) and your Project:
```

    ```
    terraform {
      required_providers {
        scaleway = {
          source = "scaleway/scaleway"
        }
      }
      required_version = ">= 0.13"
    }

    provider "scaleway" {
    }
    resource "scaleway_account_project" "mnq_tutorial" {
      name = "mnq-tutorial"
    }
    ```

> 4. Still in the same file, add code to provision the SQS resources: SQS activation for the project, separate credentials with appropriate permissions for producer and consumer, and an SQS queue:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Still in the same file, add the code below to provision the SQS resources: SQS activation for the project, separate credentials with appropriate permissions for producer and consumer, and an SQS queue:
```

    ```
    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs" "main" {
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
    }

    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials" "producer_creds" {
      project_id = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.project_id
      name = "sqs-credentials-producer"

      permissions {
        can_manage  = true
        can_receive = false
        can_publish = true
      }
    }

    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials" "consumer_creds" {
      project_id = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.project_id
      name = "sqs-credentials-consumer"

      permissions {
        can_manage  = false
        can_receive = true
        can_publish = false
      }
    }

    resource "scaleway_mnq_sqs_queue" "main" {
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
      name       = "hn-queue"
      endpoint   = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.endpoint
      access_key = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.access_key
      secret_key = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.secret_key
    }
    ```

> 5. Add code to provision the Managed Database for PostgreSQL resources. Note that here we are creating a random password and using it for the default and worker user:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Add the code below to provision the Managed Database for PostgreSQL resources. Note that here we are creating a random password and using it for the default and worker user:
```

      min_lower        = 1
      min_special      = 1
      override_special = "_-"
    }

    output db_password {
      value = random_password.dev_mnq_pg_exporter_password.result
      sensitive = true
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_instance" "main" {
      name = "test-rdb"
      project_id   = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
      node_type = "db-dev-s"
      engine = "PostgreSQL-15"
      is_ha_cluster = false
      disable_backup = true 
      user_name = "mnq_initial_user"
      password = random_password.dev_mnq_pg_exporter_password.result
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_database" "hn-database" {
      instance_id = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.id 
      name = "hn-database"
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_user" "worker" {
      instance_id = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.id
      name = "worker"
      password = random_password.dev_mnq_pg_exporter_password.result
      is_admin = false
    }

    resource "scaleway_rdb_privilege" "mnq_user_role" {
      instance_id = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.id 
      user_name = scaleway_rdb_user.worker.name
      database_name = scaleway_rdb_database.hn-database.name
      permission = "all"
    }
    ```

> 6. Add code to provision the functions resources. First activate the namespace, then create the functions. Note that we are referencing variables from other resources, to completely automate the deployment process:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Add the code below to provision the functions resources. First activate the namespace, then create the functions. Note that we are referencing variables from other resources, to completely automate the deployment process:
```

        QUEUE_URL = scaleway_mnq_sqs_queue.main.url
        SQS_ACCESS_KEY = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.access_key
      }
      secret_environment_variables = {
        SQS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = scaleway_mnq_sqs_credentials.producer_creds.secret_key
      }
    }

    resource "scaleway_function" "consumer" {
      namespace_id = scaleway_function_namespace.mnq_tutorial_namespace.id
      project_id   = scaleway_account_project.mnq_tutorial.id
      name         = "mnq-hn-consumer"
      runtime      = "python311"
      handler      = "handlers/consumer.handle"
      privacy      = "private"
      timeout      = 10
      zip_file     = "../worker/functions.zip"
      zip_hash     = filesha256("../worker/functions.zip")
      deploy       = true
      max_scale    = 3
      environment_variables = {
        DB_NAME = scaleway_rdb_database.hn-database.name
        DB_HOST = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.load_balancer[0].ip
        DB_PORT = scaleway_rdb_instance.main.load_balancer[0].port
        DB_USER = scaleway_rdb_user.worker.name
      }
      secret_environment_variables = {
        DB_PASSWORD = scaleway_rdb_user.worker.password
      }
    }
    ```

> 7. Add code to provision the triggers resources. The cron trigger activates at the minutes `[0, 15, 30, 45]` of every hour. No arguments are passed, but we could do so by specifying them in JSON format in the `args` parameter. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Add the code below to provision the triggers resources. The cron trigger activates at the minutes `[0, 15, 30, 45]` of every hour. No arguments are passed, but we could do so by specifying them in JSON format in the `args` parameter. 
```

    ```
    resource "scaleway_function_cron" "scraper_cron" {
      function_id = scaleway_function.scraper.id 
      schedule = "0,15,30,45 * * * *"
      args = jsonencode({})
    }

    resource "scaleway_function_trigger" "consumer_sqs_trigger" {
      function_id = scaleway_function.consumer.id 
      name = "hn-sqs-trigger"
      sqs {
        project_id = scaleway_mnq_sqs.main.project_id
        queue = scaleway_mnq_sqs_queue.main.name
      }
    }
    ```

## Put it all in motion
Terraform makes this very straightforward. To provision all the resources and get everything up and running, run the following commands:
```
cd terraform
terraform init
terraform plan 
terraform apply
```

### How to check that everything is working correctly

> First, go to the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/), [activate Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/quickstart/), and check the logs and metrics for Serverless Functions' execution and Messaging and Queuing SQS queue statistics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, go to the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com/), [activate Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/quickstart/), and check the logs and metrics for Serverless Functions' execution and Messaging and Queuing SQS queue statistics.
```

> To check whether the data is correctly stored in the database, you can try [connecting to it directly](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/connect-database-instance/) via a CLI tool such as `psql`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make sure the data is correctly stored in the database, you can [connect to it directly](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/connect-database-instance/) via a CLI tool such as `psql`. 
```

Retrieve the instance IP and port of your Managed Database from the console, under the [Managed Database section](https://console.scaleway.com/rdb/instances).
Use the following command to connect to your database. When prompted for password, you can find it by running `terraform output -json`.
```
psql -h <DB_INSTANCE_IP> --port <DB_INSTANCE_PORT> -d hn-database -U worker
```

When you are done testing, don't forget to clean up! First deactivate the cockpit from the console, if you had activated it. Then run: 
```
cd terraform
terraform destroy
```

## Summary, going further, key takeaways

> We have showed how to asynchronously decouple producer and consumer using SQS, adhering to serverless patterns. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have shown how to asynchronously decouple the producer and the consumer using SQS, adhering to serverless patterns. 
```

> While the volume of data processed in this example is not really noteworthy, thanks to the Messaging and Queueing SQS queue's robustness and the auto-scaling capabilities of the Serverless Functions, you can adapt this example to manage larger workloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the volume of data processed in this example is quite small, thanks to the Messaging and Queueing SQS queue's robustness and the auto-scaling capabilities of the Serverless Functions, you can adapt this example to manage larger workloads.
```

Here are some possible extensions to this basic example:
 - Replace the simple proposed logic with your own. What about counting how many times some keywords (e.g: copilot, serverless, microservice) appear in Hacker News articles? 
 - Define multiple cron triggers for different websites and pass the website as an argument to the function. Or, create multiple functions that feed the same queue. 

>  - Use a serverless container instead of the consumer function, and use a command line tool such as `htmldoc` or `pandoc` to convert the article to PDF and upload the result to a [Scaleway Object Storage](/storage/object/quickstart/) S3 bucket. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Use a [Serverless Container](/serverless/containers/quickstart/) instead of the consumer function, and use a command line tool such as `htmldoc` or `pandoc` to convert the scraped articles to PDF and upload the result to a [Scaleway Object Storage](/storage/object/quickstart/) S3 bucket. 
```
